README.md, before:

# AdventureScript

AdventureScript is a scripting language and interpreter designed for implementing text
adventure games.

## Organization of this Project

This repo contains the following subdirectories:

- **AdventureScript** is a shared library that implements the interpreter and game
  engine.

- **TextAdventure** is a terminal-based application implemented using the
  AdventureScript library.

- **OxbowCastle** is a WinUI3 application implemented using the AdventureScript library.

- **Games** contains games implemented in AdventureScript. This includes a Demo game,
  which is intended as a code sample for writing your own games.

- **AdventureTest** implements a set of tests for the game engine and for games.

- **Docs** contains a walkthrough of the [Demo](Docs/Demo.md) game as well as reference
  documentation for the [AdventureScript Language](Docs/AdventureScript-Language.md).

## Contributions

Contributions are welcome. In particular, it is hoped that this project inspires people to
create their own games. Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidance on how
to contribute to this project.

## Building the Project

To build the project, open `AdventureScript.sln` in Visual Studio and choose "Build Solution"
from the "Build" menu (or press CTRL+SHIFT+B).

## Playing Games

You can play text adventure games in one of two ways:

- Using the **TextAdventure** console application from the terminal.
- Using the graphical **Oxbow Castle** application.

The graphical application has some additional capabilities, such as the ability to display
images.

### Running TextAdventure

The easiest way to run the TextAdventure game is using the Adventure-Helpers PowerShell
module:

1. Start a PowerShell prompt navigate to the repo root.
2. Type `Import-Module .\Adventure-Helpers.psm1`.
3. Type `Get-Games` to see a list of available games.
4. Type `Invoke-Game <Name>` to play a game.
5. Type `q` to quit.

For more information about the Adventure-Helpers module, see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

### Running the Oxbow Castle Application

**Oxbow Castle** is a graphical application built on the WinUI3 framework. It is named
after the flagship "Oxbow Castle" game but actually includes all the games in this project.
You can also browse to a directory containing your own game. Oxbow Castle provides a more
user-friendly experience than TextAdventure and also has additional capabilities such as
the ability to display images and save game progress.

You can run Oxbow Castle from Visual Studio as follows:

1. Open `AdventureScript.sln` in Visual Studio.
2. Build the solution if you haven't already.
3. Right-click the **OxbowCastle** project and choose "Set as Startup Project".
4. Click the "Start Without Debugging" button on the toolbar (or press CTRL+F5).

Alternatively, you can install the Oxbow Castle app from the Store app in Windows.

Commit message:

Add additional build instructions to README.md. (#29)

README.md, after:

# AdventureScript

AdventureScript is a scripting language and interpreter designed for implementing text
adventure games.

## Organization of this Project

This repo contains the following subdirectories:

- **AdventureScript** is a shared library that implements the interpreter and game
  engine.

- **TextAdventure** is a terminal-based application implemented using the
  AdventureScript library.

- **OxbowCastle** is a WinUI3 application implemented using the AdventureScript library.

- **Games** contains games implemented in AdventureScript. This includes a Demo game,
  which is intended as a code sample for writing your own games.

- **AdventureTest** implements a set of tests for the game engine and for games.

- **Docs** contains a walkthrough of the [Demo](Docs/Demo.md) game as well as reference
  documentation for the [AdventureScript Language](Docs/AdventureScript-Language.md).

## Contributions

Contributions are welcome. In particular, it is hoped that this project inspires people to
create their own games. Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidance on how
to contribute to this project.

## Building the Project

You can build the project either from Visual Studio or from the command prompt.
To build from Visual Studio:

1. Open `AdventureScript.sln` in Visual Studio.
2. Chose "Build Solution" from the "Build" menu (or press CTRL+SHIFT+B).

To build from the command prompt, you do not need to have Visual Studio installed but
do need to have PowerShell and the .NET SDK installed. These are available for Linux
and Macintosh. The following instructions have been tested on Windows and Linux:

1. Start a PowerShell prompt and navigate to the repo root.
2. Type `Import-Module .\Adventure-Helpers.psm1`.
3. Type `build`

For more information about the Adventure-Helpers module, see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Note: The Windows-specific OxbowCastle project is only built on Windows.

## Playing Games

You can play text adventure games in one of two ways:

- Using the **TextAdventure** console application from the terminal.
- Using the graphical **Oxbow Castle** application.

The graphical application has some additional capabilities, such as the ability to display
images.

### Running TextAdventure

The easiest way to run the TextAdventure game is using the Adventure-Helpers PowerShell
module:

1. Start a PowerShell prompt and navigate to the repo root.
2. Type `Import-Module .\Adventure-Helpers.psm1`.
3. Type `Get-Games` to see a list of available games.
4. Type `Invoke-Game <Name>` to play a game.
5. Type `q` to quit.

For more information about the Adventure-Helpers module, see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

### Running the Oxbow Castle Application

**Oxbow Castle** is a graphical application built on the WinUI3 framework. It is named
after the flagship "Oxbow Castle" game but actually includes all the games in this project.
You can also browse to a directory containing your own game. Oxbow Castle provides a more
user-friendly experience than TextAdventure and also has additional capabilities such as
the ability to display images and save game progress.

You can run Oxbow Castle from Visual Studio as follows:

1. Open `AdventureScript.sln` in Visual Studio.
2. Build the solution if you haven't already.
3. Right-click the **OxbowCastle** project and choose "Set as Startup Project".
4. Click the "Start Without Debugging" button on the toolbar (or press CTRL+F5).

Alternatively, you can install the Oxbow Castle app from the Store app in Windows.
